# Anthropic Just Added These Features to Claude Code

## Fonte
- **Tipo:** video
- **Autor:** Ray Amjad
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IiA4Ku5viyg&t=246s
- **Duração:** 13 min
- **Data original:** 2025-12-10
- **Data captura:** 2026-01-04

## Conteúdo

Kind: captions Language: en Okay, so earlier today some interesting new features were added to Cloud Code. So we will be going over them as well as many of the new features from the last two weeks. But before getting started, it's worth me mentioning that I have a Cloud Code master class that teaches you every single featuring Cloud Code as well as many techniques that I've picked up myself from over 1,000 hours of usage. Many of which that you will not find anywhere else on YouTube. It will be linked down below alongside a coupon code. And it does have a 7-day money back guarantee if you're not satisfied. Okay, first of all, they made autoco compacting instant. And I noticed this earlier today because I compacted this conversation and it basically happened immediately. And usually when it came to compacting conversations, it would take about 2 minutes. But now it's much faster. And basically the way that this works behind the scenes is that your docloud folder in your home directory has a projects folder. And inside of that, if you go to any of your projects, you can then click into any of the sessions that you've had or any of the chats, go to session memory, and then you can see a summary of that session. And basically every time you send a message to Cloud Code or every time it responds to you, it always adds onto the session memory the summary. So you can see it kind of looks like this. You have the session title and this is a title that cloud code came up with itself. The current status of the session which includes anything completed, any discussion points and open questions and then like a bunch of other things that you can see described over here. Some learnings, some key results and then a work log which is automatically updated every time you send a message. So if I quickly send a message to a chat and say something like can you tell me a short story and you can see now says user requested short story. Claude wrote a short story about the conversation itself. So basically it's now interesting that every time you're using cloud code it's automatically keeping a memory of the entire session. And I believe what's happening is that when you do compact and it's instant what it's actually doing is it just loads the summary of that session into a brand new session that it was writing as you were going along in the previous session. And if you are interested in what's stored in the session memory, then you can basically just ask cloud code where is your session memory stored and it will tell you the exact location because it knows its own like session ID and you can see in my case here it is and I can just click on that and then see the current status of the session. Anyways, I thought that was a pretty interesting decision and I guess you can have fun looking at the session memory if you are interested in what cloud code is doing behind the scenes. Okay, so now agents and bash commands can run asynchronously and send messages to wake up the main agent. So for example, I can spawn a brand new sub agent by saying, "Can you spawn a general purpose sub agent to do intensive research online and explain to people why they should take my cloud code masterass with a link?" And then press enter. And now you can see it spawns up this sub agent with this task given to it. And then I can press Ctrl +B to move it into the background. And now you can see it's looking for the agent output. But I can press exit because it's listening for the agent output. I can press exit, continue on saying like, "Hi, tell me a story for example." And then the chat can continue as normal, like it just told me a story. I can then do /tasks and see that agent is running async in the background. Press enter, click on it to see like how many tokens it's used so far. Then I can also see the token count go up and everything else that it's doing here. And then I can continue doing my work as normal. And finally, once that sub agent is done, it will then wake up the main agent again. And then finally, once it is done, it will say agent completed. The research agent has completed its analysis. and cloud code will use a new tool called the agent output tool to then look at the response that the agent then gave it and then it will like combine that response into the main agents task at hand. So you can see now the comprehensive research for why you should take the cloud code master class is now ready and then I can use this for marketing material or something like that. So this can be pretty useful in situations where you're coding on something. You can get a sub agent to then like search to find information in the background and then come back and resume the session once they found that information. Likewise, the same thing also applies for bash commands. So in certain situations, you may be running a mpm install command or ffmpeg command or something like that, which may take a while in the background. You can just leave that running in the background and then continue on with any work that you want to do. And the way of doing it with a bash command should be pretty similar to what I just showed you earlier. Slash stats now provides users with interesting cloud code stats such as favorite model, usage graph, and usage streak. So if I do/st stats. So these are my stats and I think they only started recording this recently because I don't see any stats from like this time. Uh so yeah, I'm not sure what's up with that, but basically it seems my favorite model is Sonic 4.5, and that's probably because I use a lot of Sonic 4.5 based sub agents. I used 10 million tokens so far. My longest session was 1 day and 8 hours, and I've been basically using it every single day. So I can like copy these stats by doing control S. And then if I go to Twitter and then press commandV, then you can see I can just share the stats online pretty easily. If I press tab to then go to models tab, I can then see how many tokens I've used per day for all the different types of models available. And I can do crl S again to copy this and then go to Twitter and then do Ctrl +V to paste it. So yeah, this can be a pretty good way to compare people within the company maybe for phone or something like that. They now added named session support. So you can do slash rename to name sessions and then resume sessions by a particular name that you gave it earlier on. But I think that may be broken because it doesn't recognize a command/reame. So maybe they will fix it later. But what I have noticed is that if you do slash resume then you can see all your previous sessions and you can also rename sessions here as well. So if you do r then you can just rename the session and I can call this like r type in YouTube press enter and now the session has been renamed to YouTube. And if I want to, I can do claude d-res and then put in YouTube and that will resume that previous session. Likewise, a resume screen now groups forked sessions together and has keyboard shortcuts like preview and rename. So if I go to /resume again and I can go to previous session like how does autocompact work for you? Press P, I can see everything within that session. And I can choose to resume it by pressing enter or pressing escape to go back. And for example, this session over here has an arrow. So if I press B, then I can see any previous sessions that existed in that main session because I compacted that session. A brand new session was spawned that was forked out of the main session. And then I can resume any of those previous sessions from before it actually compacts to the conversation, which can be pretty handy. Another handy thing is you can press A to then show all your projects because when you do resume, then you can only see the sessions that happened in that particular folder that you're currently inside. We have now also added support for Claude rules. So basically with cloud's memory there are four types of memory locations in a hierarchical structure. So the enterprise project memory project rules user memory and project memory local. So this is quite a lot but the way it's loaded in is enterprise is load in first then the project cla file that you may already have. Then you can now define projectbased rules and this basically allows you to modularize your real files better kind of like cursor rules if you do remember that. So if you scroll down you can basically see this is a structure in yourcloud folder you'd have your cloud MD file inside your project and then you can have rules for different types of things. If you don't define a path at the very top of the rule then it will be applied all the time. But if you do define a path such as an APIs folder then that rule will only apply to files within that folder. So you can see how the setup is. It's like pretty similar to cursor rules if you're already familiar with that. Now, of course, the advantage is you can now organize your quad.md file better and have it only apply to specific folders. So, for example, if you have a bigger mono repo like me for this particular project, I can extract some stuff that only apply to the CloudFly workers and then some other stuff that would only apply to Mac OS application, other stuff that would apply to a website and so forth. I will be covering this in more detail such as how to get it set up, use sim links, user level rules and stuff in my Cloud Code master class as well pretty soon. For multiple choice questions, Cloud Code will now use a recommended indicator with the recommended option being moved to top of the list. So, this can be useful in planning mode when you're not exactly sure which option you should take. Whenever Cloud Code now makes a commit, it will then say which model actually wrote the code. Here, you can now enable and disable MCP servers quickly by doing /mcp enable and then the server name. So, for example, MCP, I can see I have the Superbase MCP installed. I can do mcp disable superbase and that will quickly disable the superbase mcp. If for some reason you want to launch cloud code without any slash commands then you can use this. So you can do claude- disable slash commands and then if you do something like /mcp or /resume you won't see any of the commands available. So I guess this gives you a more minimal like just chatting with cloud experience maybe. They now also added a d-- agent CLI flag to override the agent settings for the current session. And that basically means that if you have some kind of sub agent in your session, then you can run claude code as that particular sub aent. So for example, I have a Mac OS log analyzer sub agent that uses a haiku model because it doesn't need a more powerful one. I can copy over the name of that sub agent. Do claude- agent. Put in the name. Press enter. And then you can see it will automatically run as the Mac OS log analyzer sub agent. And I'll say what do you do? And then you can see it says I'm cloud code blah blah blah. Mac OS unified log analysis. So I think that can be pretty cool. You can run cloud code as any of the sub agents that you have in your project. So you can have all the same instructions that the sub aents do and actually manually execute a particular sub aent. I can also run claude code as any of the default cloud code sub aents by doing claude- agent and plan for example and that is a planning sub agent that is built into cloud code and then if I say what do you do then it will let me know of the planning responsibilities and capabilities that it has. So what this means is by default if you leave out the agent flag then cloud code will run as a main agent that is built into cloud code. But if you specify an agent flag then you can use any of the default sub agents like manually like control them or you can use any of the sub agents that you have actually installed or created in your project. And this can be pretty good because usually when cloud code spawns up sub agents like you can't steer the sub agent in any particular way. It just runs and then comes back to you. But in this case, you can probably diagnose sub agents to make sure they operate well by actually running the sub agent manually and trying to like get a feel for it. They also now added the ability to delegate tasks to cloud code from Slack. So in Slack, you can go to the app section, search for cloud, and then click on it and press install. Press add to Slack to add it to your workspace. And then it will ask you for like permission and stuff. So you can press allow. And now it says cloud code is now installed. So we can go back to Slack. And now here we have cloud available. So I can press connect account then connect to my enthropic account. Go back to Slack again and then I can choose a model that's used for conversation. Choose whether it's code only or code plus chat. See the organization. And then inside the channel I can do at Claude and be like hey can you add a Chinese uh translation to landing page for my application Hyperisper. And then that and then Hypisper [clears throat] will transcribe what I just said. And then Claude code will be like hey I'm going to get started with this but it seems I have to add Claude to channel first. So I'll add cloud to channel and it's organizing gathering information and then it will generate me a response. But it's now asking me the repo it should work in because I can't identify that. So this can be pretty useful if you want to work with cloud code on a like bug fix or something in your team or if you have some kind of like channel on your team Slack where you're regularly getting bug fixes or like issues coming in. You can just tag cloud code and if you want to extend the abilities then you can go to cloud press connect to slack connector and within the connectors over here you can add a custom connector to like the sentry mcp server or something or your own logging system and if you are interested in buying my speech text application hyposper then there will be a link and coupon code for that down below as well. I am also working on a windows version as well so that will be out within the next month or so but if you press download now then you can put in your email and then you'll get notified when the Windows version is out. Anyways, just before ending the video, I remember reading the measuring political bias in Claude like article that Enthropic wrote and this graph was pretty interesting because it shows a bunch of different models. It is one month old, so some of the models are not on here, but Opus 4.1 was the best at considering opposing or counter arguments to like political problems and maybe the fact that Claude is better at considering opposing perspectives and counter arguments that can carry over to making better decisions when it comes to coding. And I imagine like since Opus 4.1 was a best here, it's quite likely that Opus 4.5 is pretty good as well or score slightly higher on this like eval benchmark thing that they have. Anyways, hopefully that video was pretty interesting and you learned something useful. If you do like this kind of content, then do subscribe to the channel because it lets YouTube know that this is a good video and you will get recommended more videos like this in the future. And if you are interested in my Cloud Code master class, then that will be linked down below alongside a coupon code. And I will be updating the class in the next 2 days with all the new features that I just talked about in the video. There's a 7-day money back guarantee if you don't like the class. And so far, less than 0.5% of people have asked for their money back. So that's how I know the class is really good because like people just like enjoy the class and they don't ask for a refund. And yeah, because I've never accepted a sponsor on their channel and never want to to keep my videos unbiased. Classes like this and my software like Hyposper basically helps keep the channel going. So if you're interested then do check it

## Minhas Anotações

